These are old notes from worldbuilding ideas-in-progress.

I explored the idea of an underground world full of crystal light with
different effects. Over time, that idea turned into The Green, and
other ideas, about the Faerie world.

## The Empire of Shards

I love the idea of playing with memory and external influences on
characters, and on impermanence. As part of that, I like the idea of
caverns lit by phosphorescent crystals of unknown origin (Shanna
suggested crystal light, I kind of ran with it.) Different colors of
crystals would have different effects, including some (green?) that
would cause you to lose your memory.

I like the idea of different caverns with varying types of crystals
having different social systems - a mostly green-lit cavern full of
memory-loss crystals might have a small amount of "prime" non-green
real estate that the most established cavedwellers live in, and how
does everybody else get on? Do people change their roles, and even
their names, regularly, if they're frequently memory-wiped? I like the
thought of people retaining "aptitudes" where they were good at
something, but they may have no idea why they're good at it, or when
they were good. The possibilities if people can remember something
incorrectly but be convinced it's right also seem lovely.

This also helps setting. I can play with different themes of varying
seriousness or silliness in different caverns with different
setups. Zany with very little continuity? Great, lots of food and
resources but lots of memory-loss crystals. Dark and gritty? Sure,
varying levels of memory loss but tight on food and resources so you
have a small group in the center that is nasty and sets the gritty
tone.  With a different group in power, everything else changes
because so much of the tone has to be set by whoever *doesn't* lose
their memory, especially if (as will normally happen) they control a
lot of the resources.

I'm trying to figure out whether I like the idea of some kind of
"blockers" for memory-loss crystal radiation. If so, it should be rare
and expensive - if everybody wears cheap, durable special glasses then
the crystals are mostly a non-event. But having a few people who can
walk with impunity through the "bad" areas might be interesting for
tone reasons.

Though you know what would be *way* more thematic? Enclosed litters
carried by servants who regularly lose their memory while their
masters stay in the box to be safe. Have to decide how hard the
radiation is to block, which ties into whether you can pass through
"bad" areas reasonably.

I also like the idea of other crystal effects. Think of "sparky"
crystals that make people manic and dangerous but inspired, for
instance. This also gives room for various corrupting effects, which
would also change tone a lot. Imagine "crystal soldiers" wanting to
drag people back to the same place that corrupted them. Though that's
been done more and better, so it's less enticing as a theme. Still,
might be a fun occasional variation.

## Memory and Shards

With these crystal-lit caverns and no easy way to cross them, you wind
up with a lot of tiny areas cut off from each other. Easy to separate,
impossible to unify. There might be minor communication -- shards near
each other may have whisper channels or tap codes, say.

I like the thought of huge, intense channels of green crystals, which
would mean certain major memory loss for anybody that crossed it, as
the central connections between these islands, these small areas,
which I've been calling shards.

You'd have a few people that intentionally wandered away, and a few
constant wanderers with no consistent memory. But mostly you'd have
little islands with only a vague and inaccurate idea of what other
areas consisted of.

Would language be immune to the memory loss effect, or could long
exposure eventually cause even that to change or be lost? You need a
certain amount in common or communication breaks down utterly.



## The Deep Lands

For some time, I've wanted to put together something loose and
thematic around (in no particular order) an underground, constrained
setting with some amount of "mad-sciency" magic.

Influences include Avernum, Fallen London and Girl Genius. I like the
idea of "deep madness" - of certain caverns being especially awful and
slowly corrupting their inhabitants, while a few settlements are big
and thriving, but have to stay away from the nasty bits.

I also want to start putting together little games. I've written
Pixiurge to try and make that happen. So this becomes a sort of simple
Pixiurge playground as well. That also enourages keeping the theme
loose - there are many experiments that don't necessarily fit a tight,
specific, coherent theme :-)


## Random Story Notes

Goblins/Fae ("Twilight folk") as unspecific, and by becoming more specific and rigid they gain power, but not happiness.

Scars accumulate as they exist longer, increasing rigidness.

They fade in and out, intentionally "washing away" some of what they
were, maybe completely.

The Green is part of how they fade away.

Maybe start in a Fae Wood where lots of unspecific spirits "slosh" around, as the start.


## Brainstorming

Oz: Nonestic ocean, Rinkitink (character/kingdom); Nonestica map:
http://oz.wikia.com/wiki/Maps_of_Oz?file=Nonestica.jpg

## Fairy Sources

http://www.artpassions.net/rackham/rackham.html
http://artpassions.net/fairies/fairy.html
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Goblin_Market

## Free Art Assets

publicdomainpictures - .net? Something like that.

https://wptavern.com/13-sources-for-free-public-domain-and-cc0-licensed-images
Kenney.nl - CC0-licensed giant asset packs, fee to download ($25 for 30k, *not* bad), often also on OpenGameArt
OpenGameArt.org
Opengamegraphics.com
Gameart2d.com - free/paid hybrid
GlitchtheGame.com - visually distinctive platformer-pov game made all art free after shutdown (SWF/FLA)
Lostgarden.com - SpaceCute and TinyWorld, CC 3.0-Attribution
Subtlepatterns.com
openclipart.org
